As explained in the video, probability values have the following two major properties:

Probability values always lie in the range of 0 to 1. 
The value is 0 in the case of an impossible event (like the probability of you being in Delhi and Mumbai at the same time) and 1 in the case of a sure event (like the probability of the sun rising in the east tomorrow).

The probabilities of all outcomes for an experiment always sum up to 1. For example, in a coin toss, there can be two outcomes, heads or tails.
The probability of both of the outcomes is 0.5 each. Hence, the sum of the probabilities turns out to be 0.5 + 0.5 = 1.
Next, you learnt a couple of definitions that are crucial in understanding probability. They are as follows:

Experiment:
Essentially, any scenario for which you want to compute the probabilities is considered to be an experiment.

It is of the following two types:
1. Deterministic: 
Outcome is the same every time.

2. Random:
Outcome can take many possible values. Throughout the majority of our business analytics course, we will only be discussing the random experiment.

Sample space:
A sample space is nothing but the list of all possible outcomes of a random experiment. 
It is denoted by S = {all the possible outcomes}. For example, in the coin toss example, the sample space S = {H, T}, where H = heads and T = tails.
Event: It is a subset, i.e., a part of the sample space that you want to be true for your probability experiment.
For example, if in a coin toss you want heads to be the desired outcome, then the event becomes {H}. As you can see clearly, {H} is a part of {H, T}.
 
Types of Events
In the previous segment, you understood how probability is defined formally and also learnt some of its properties.
You were also introduced to the concept of 'events', situations or scenarios for which we compute the probabilities.
In this segment, we will take a look at the different types of 'events' that can be defined.
Note that earlier you considered a single event for which you computed the probabilities. Now, you will look at two or more events and understand how they are related to each other.

 

The two main categories of events that you need to know right now are independent events and disjoint or mutually exclusive events. Let's learn their formal definitions.

 

1. Independent events:
If you have two or more events and the occurrence of one event has no bearing whatsoever on the occurrence/s of the other event/s, then all the events are said to be independent of each other.
For example, the chances of rain in Bengaluru on a particular day has no effect on the chances of rain in Mumbai 10 days later.
Hence, these two events are independent of each other. 

2. Disjoint or mutually exclusive events:
Now, two or more events are mutually exclusive when they do not occur at the same time, i.e., when one event occurs, the rest of the events do not occur.
For example, if a student has been assigned grade C for a particular subject in an exam, he or she cannot be awarded grade B for the same subject in the same exam.
So, the events in which a student gets a grade of B or C for the same subject in the  same exam are mutually exclusive or disjoint.


Rules of Probability - Addition
In the previous examples, we were always involved in finding the probability of a single event. For example: 

The probability of getting an ace card from a deck of 52 cards
The probability of selecting three bowlers from a list of four, and so on
 

Now, what about two events occurring simultaneously? For example, what would be the probability of selecting an ace card or a heart card from the deck?
How would this specific probability relate to the individual probabilities, i.e., the probability of getting a heart card separately and the probability of getting an ace card separately?
This is something that you will get to learn using the two important rules related to probability – addition and multiplication. First, we will discuss the addition rule in the upcoming video.


P(A U B) = P(A)+P(B) - P(A intersection B)   => Rule of addition
P(A and B) = P(A)*P(B)                       => Rule of multiplication



Summary
Here is a summary of what you have learnt in this session.

 

First, you were introduced to two main counting principles through which you can calculate the probability for the outcomes that you are interested in. These counting principles are as follows:

Permutations:
A permutation is a way of arranging a selected group of objects in such a way that the order is of significance.
For example, arranging some letters to form different words, arranging the top order batsmen of a team, or finding all the ways in which a group of friends can be seated in a cinema hall – all these methods use permutations.
When there are 'n' objects to be arranged among 'r' spaces, the permutation value is given by the following formula:
                                                             

Combinations:
When you just have to choose some objects from a larger set and the order is of no significance, then the rule of counting that you use is called combination.
For example, if you need to find the number of ways to choose three vowels from the given list of give, or choose four bowlers from the given roster of seven – all these methods use combinations.
If you want to choose 'r' objects from a larger set of 'n' objects, then the number of ways in which you can do that is given by the following formula:

 

Next, you learnt about some specific terms related to probability – events, sample space and experiments. You also learnt some basic rules of probability such as follows:

Probability values always lie between 0 and 1.
Probability values for all outcomes of an experiment always add up to 1.
Then, you learnt about specific types of events that can be encountered while computing probabilities of more than two events. They are as follows:

Independent events: If you have two or more events and the occurrence of one event has no bearing whatsoever on the occurrence/s of the other event/s, then all the events are said to be independent of each other.
Disjoint or mutually exclusive events: Now, two or more events are mutually exclusive when they do not occur at the same time, i.e., when one event occurs, the rest of the events do not occur.

You also learnt about the idea of complement A' for any event A and the probability rule for them, i.e., P(A) + P(A') =1.

 

Next, you were introduced to two main rules of probability that help you in finding the probabilities of two or more events. They are as follows:

Addition rule: When you have the individual probabilities of two events A and B, denoted by P(A) and P(B), the addition rule states that the probability of the event that either A or B will occur is given as 
P(A∪B) = P(A) + P(B) - P(A∩B),
         Where, P(A∪B) denotes the probability that either event A or B occurs. 
          P(A) denotes the probability that only event A occurs.
          P(B) denotes the probability that only event B occurs.
          P(A∩B) denotes the probability that both events A and B occur simultaneously.

Multiplication rule: When an event A is not dependent on event B and vice versa, they are known as independent events.
The multiplication rule allows us to compute the probabilities of both of them occurring simultaneously, which is given as:
P(A and B) = P(A)*P(B).
Now, this rule can be extended to multiple independent events where all you need to do is multiply the respective probabilities of all the events to get the final probability of all them occurring simultaneously.
For example, if you have four independent events A, B, C and D, then:
                                     P(A and B and C and D) = P(A)*P(B)*P(C)*P(D)

 

Finally, you also saw a comparison between the addition rule and the multiplication rule that would help you to decide which formula to use in a given scenario.
If the question mentions an 'OR' to denote the relationship between the events, then you need to apply the addition rule.
That is, either of the given events can occur at that time, P(Event A or Event B). Else, if an 'AND' is used to denote the relationship between the events, then the multiplication rule is used.
Here, the events need to happen simultaneously and must be independent, P(Event A and Event B).

the formula for finding binomial probability is given by:
nCr * P ^ r * (1-P) ^ (n-r)

